## Acknowledgements and Discussion:

I could not have finished this project, and retained my sanity without the help of one team in particular. They really helped me in the final few minutes when all my backend code broke, my URL wouldn't work and I had lost all my cool. I mention this team in particular as their project was banned from judging. This ban I view as both unfair and un-just, and seemingly socially motivated. Whilst I am not privy to the social-dynamics within this Society (as, suprise - I'm not a Sussex University student), I am very adept with social cues and know to always trust my gut when something doesn't feel right. I also have a social responsibility to highlight this event, as an un-affiliated participant and one of the few winners at this Hackathon.   

I am writing this to highlight an unfair decision I witnessed. We sadly live in a time where in-person Hackathons are few and far between, and I will not let this experience impact my attendance to these events and events such as these in the future. 

**I need to state that I do not know these people at all. We are not affiliated, and I had not met them prior to this Hackathon. All I know them as are people who showed me kindness when many other participants showed no interest at all in talking to me. I have nothing positive to gain from writing this, but if this happened to me or someone I love, I would want people to speak out.** 

[The MLH code of conduct](https://github.com/MLH/mlh-policies/blob/main/code-of-conduct.md) states "Major League Hacking (MLH) stands for inclusivity. We believe that every single person has the right to hack in a safe and welcoming environment." This should mean that participants should be judged by their merit, not by social vendettas. This group's project was banned due to it violating the [MLH code of conduct section](https://github.com/MLH/mlh-policies/blob/main/code-of-conduct.md) stating " attendees should not use sexualized images, activities, or other material both in their hacks and during the event. Both staff (including volunteers) should not use sexualized clothing/uniforms/costumes or otherwise create a sexualized environment." However, their temporary title (which was what contained sexual connotations) was replaced prior to judging. If the individual in question viewed the shaking feature of their game as 'inappropriate', I would like to draw their attention to the much loved game 'BOP-IT!' which is advertised to children, and the celebrations of F1 teams streamed on live TV. 

I would like to acknowledge I am so happy that events such as these have rules in place to protect participants, and by no means blame the event sponsors for this situation. As an individual who identifies and is outwardly perceived as female (using She/Her pronouns), I am grateful that safety and comfort is the first priority of all organisations involved. Having said this, weaponising discomfort as malice is not acceptable, and in fact sullies the ground in which these rules were set. Whilst I am honoured to have won multiple categories, there were categories with prizes not allocated that this team should have won. The joy of a competition is the competitive environment that we as humans thrive on - wins are soured when this competition is thinned. 

This group of three second-years, in their fourth total term at university, created a fully functioning mobile game and finalised this far before any other team. This is an incredibly impressive feat which should have been reflected in judging. I feel it is a shame, and a shadow on the University Society that this achievement was not acknowledged. The beauty of technical subjects is that they are black and white - there is A Right and there is A Wrong. It clearly states in the [MLH code of conduct](https://github.com/MLH/mlh-policies/blob/main/code-of-conduct.md) that themes perceived as sexual in nature do qualify as harassment, HOWEVER it also acknowledges cases where these themes can be changed as stated here: "If what you’re doing is making someone feel uncomfortable, that counts as harassment and is enough reason to stop doing it. Participants asked to stop any harassing behavior are expected to comply immediately." The team changed their theme, yet they were still punished. 

[The MLH code of conduct states](https://github.com/MLH/mlh-policies/blob/main/code-of-conduct.md): "If you are being harassed, notice that someone else is being harassed, or have any other concerns, please contact MLH using the reporting procedures defined below." In my opinion, excluding someone from an event with cause that does not directly follow instructions provided by the code of conduct, is a form of harassment. Especially if after a personal bias is brought to light. Anyone can be victims of harassement, and this is not something only experienced by women in a male-dominated spaces. The fact that this decision was made by people in power acting in asociety within the University that this group still continues to attend, should make this harassment more of a cause for concern. As a student looking into this event externally, I expect the University to take action as their general duty of care.

In my opinion, this team should share in our Auth0 and Vultr prizes. They helped me fix the errors in my code that won us these prizes after their disqualification (this does not violate the 'no cross-submission' rule, as they had not submitted), and their inclusion in our team would not violate the team size rules (as this would form a team of 5). I have already shared one of our prizes with a memember of this team willingly, somewhat forcefully, and with great joy (to show gratitude for their help). I can only hope that the University and event sponsors can share in this opinion.   

If I can get in contact with this team, I will link their repository below.
